# CS305-Software-Security
This repository contains work accomplished in conjunction with Software Security studies.

Artemis Financial is a financial institution looking to modernize there operation with a new software application. 
In an effort to protect their clients and themselves from potential vulnerabilities, Artemis has sought the help of Global Rain to ensure that their program is protected using the most current and effective software security standards.

When scanning the program for vulnerabilities, 13 vulnerabilites were identified and neatly organized into a report for Artemis' situational awareness. It is important that vulnerabilities in their application is identified so that Artemis' development team has the most up-to-date information on how to best protect the organization from data leakage, attacks, and compliance violations. Securing Artemis' program enables the company to operate safely, reassuring customers that their sensitive information is protected, and ensuring that the company is keeping up with the standard set out by the appropriate regulatory bodies.

Conducting this vulnerability assessment was extremely beneficial to me as well, as it was my first time implementing the OWASP Maven Dependency Check. This is a tool that is fundemental to my ability to securely code and I will need to explore it's abilities for future projects. I thought that running the check would be a simple copy-paste affair within the pom.xml file of the application, but running the scan for the first time really exposed problems in my own PC and IDE configurations. This caused me to dive deep into better understanding the conditions under which the application was running and how to modify those setting to successfully complete the scan and identify the programs vulnerabilities. This difficulty proved to be a struggle at first, and a reward, building on my knowlege of the Eclipse environment and the configurations of my local PC.

Based on these findings, vulnerable dependencies should be addressed by reviewing the documentation and release notes of each library to truly understand the vulnerabilities and fixes. Regular updates and patches should be pushed in conjunction with automated scanning tools to receive up-to-date vulnerability notifications. The base code should be reviewed for the use of user input, and input validation implemented where applicable. Alongside input validation, proper error handling and event logging should be utilized. This will prevent leakage of potentially critical information of the code base structure, and in the occurrence of similar errors thrown, logging tools can be used to assess patterned attacks and alert program custodians. Authentication and authorization should be enacted. Spring Security is a tool that can help manage these properties within the application. Ensure that best practices are used when accessing databases. Encryption of sensitive data within a database should be used to protect sensitive data at rest. Source code should be clear and meaningful, complete with comments, explaining the classes and methods in use throughout the code. Employee training should be conducted with regular occurrence or in the event of a major change to the application. Consultation would be well advised regarding any regulatory compliance that may be required by the financial industry and international markets. Lastly, an effort to improve performance should be made throughout the production and deployment of the program, a good user experience can have a large impact on client satisfaction.

Success of the application was based on its ability to run without errors. Learned in the subsequent project 2, any refactored code would have resulted in additional scans and addressing new vulnerabilities to ensure that any changes made to the application did not increase the attack surface of the application. 

The resources that Oracle, Maven, and NIST offer are hugely beneficial helping developers learn how to properly secure that programs, finding vulnerabilities and neutralizing them. These are just a few examples of the many resources that blanket the internet and when paired with the powerful debugging tools offered within modern IDEs like Eclipse, developers have a path to refine their skills in implementing secure coding practices.

For future employers, I would use this project to show them that I possess the ability to conduct simple static testing tasks, and more importantly the ability to learn a new skill in a relatively independent nature. I believe the way I organized the vulnerabilities within the report were very understandable even to someone who may have less of a technical background. My report actually had to be condensed to prevent it from being to long, otherwise I would have included many more CVEs and the solutions to remediate them. I hope to gain more experience in security testing applications so that I may become more proficient in using them as a resource.

